Webservice tutorial (#507)
PrestaShop/docs: src/content/1.7/development/webservice/tutorials/3-prestashop-webservice-lib/1-install-library.md

---

> title: 1 - Accessing the Webservice

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: 1 - PrestaShop Webservice lib
```

Note that the title and the file name should be the same

Author: You're right, but if we use `PrestaShop Webservice lib` it will be redundant with the parent section `3 - PrestaShop Webservice lib > 1 - PrestaShop Webservice lib`

The problem is this page actually deals with two topics: Install the library + Access the webservice

Reviewer: It's a suggestion, you can choose the one you think it's best. Just try to keep  the url and the page title consistent.

Author: I changed it to `Setup library` which can englobe both topics

weight: 1
---

# PrestaShop Webservice lib

> Now that your webservice is configured and accessible you might want to use it. To help you perform request on your webservice we provide a [PHP library for PrestaShop Webservices](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop-webservice-lib).

Reviewer: Avoid using "we" if you can.

```suggestion
Now that your webservice is configured and accessible you might want to use it. To help you perform requests on your webservice, you can use the [PHP library for PrestaShop Webservices](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop-webservice-lib).
```

## Install the lib

> ### Pre-requisites

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Prerequisites
```

* You need a server with `mod_rewrite` enabled
* You need the `curl` extension enabled in PHP

### Installing with Composer

If you are starting a new project you can init your composer project along with the dependency:

```bash
composer init --require="Prestashop/Prestashop-webservice-lib:dev-master" -n  
composer install
```

Or if you already have an existing project simply add the dependency:

```bash
composer require "Prestashop/Prestashop-webservice-lib"  
```

The library is not PSR compliant and has no namespace therefore you need to update your `composer.json` file to include the class in your `autoload`:

```json
{
    "require": {
        "Prestashop/Prestashop-webservice-lib": "dev-master"
    },
    "autoload": {
        "files": [
            "vendor/prestaShop/prestaShop-webservice-lib/PSWebServiceLibrary.php"
        ]
    }
}
```

And regenerate your `autoload`:

```bash
composer dump-autoload
```

> Then you can use the library via autoloading:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then you can use the library with Composer's autoloading:
```

Alternatively, the file could be imported

Author: `Alternatively, the file could be imported` you mean like in the manual install?

Reviewer: Exactly.

Author: Ok, so it's already describe in the manual section

```php
require_once('./PSWebServiceLibrary.php');

$webService = new PrestaShopWebservice(...);
```

## Accessing the webservice

### Create your client

First, you must create an instance of the `PrestaShopWebservice` object, which takes 3 parameters in its constructor:

- The store's root path (ex: http://example.com/ ).
- The authentication key (ex: ZR92FNY5UFRERNI3O9Z5QDHWKTP3YIIT).
- A boolean value, indicating whether the Webservice must use its debug mode.

```php
$webService = new PrestaShopWebservice('http://example.com/', 'ZR92FNY5UFRERNI3O9Z5QDHWKTP3YIIT', false);
```

Once the instance is created you can access the following methods:

| Method   | HTTP equivalent   | SQL    |
|----------|-------------------|--------|
| get()    | POST              | INSERT |
| add()    | GET               | SELECT |
| edit()   | PUT               | UPDATE |
| delete() | DELETE            | DELETE |

### Handling errors

It is essential that you understand how to handle errors with the webservice library. By implementing error-catch method early, you will more easily detect issues, and be able to correct them on the go.

> Error handling with the webservice library is done using PHP exceptions. If you do not know about them, you should read http://php.net/manual/en/language.exceptions.php, as exceptions are an essential part of good coding practices.

Reviewer: Always add titles to your links

```suggestion
Error handling with the webservice library is done using PHP exceptions. If you do not know about them, you should [read about it](http://php.net/manual/en/language.exceptions.php), as exceptions are an essential part of good coding practices.
```

> The error handling is done within a `try..catch` block, with the webservice instanciation and execution being done in the `try` section, the `catch` one containing the error handling code. There are many types of exception that exist you can catch specific ones which allows you to deal with each error case accordingly, the webservice library uses `PrestaShopWebserviceException` so you can catch this one only to deal with errors related to webservice.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The error handling is done within a `try...catch` block, with the webservice instantiation and execution being done in the `try` section, the `catch` one containing the error handling code. There are many types of exception that exist you can catch specific ones which allows you to deal with each error case accordingly, the webservice library uses `PrestaShopWebserviceException` so you can catch this one only to deal with errors related to webservice.
```

Author: Ooohh I finally learn how to write `instantiation` I always had spellchecker errors on this one 😅

Reviewer: Pro tip: right click the misspelled word and most of the time you'll get the correct one. Alternatively, you can use the dictionary 😛

Author: Well that's what I usually do But the right click never gave me an alternative spelling, and I didn't push to the dictionary research for this one as I was sure of it :P
Or maybe I was so sure of it that I didn't read the suggestion correctly 😅

If you don't use composer you can download the [library archive](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop-webservice-lib/archive/master.zip) and extract it where you need.
You will then need to manually load the `PSWebServiceLibrary` in your PHP script or application:

```php
require_once('./PSWebServiceLibrary.php');

$webService = new PrestaShopWebservice(...);
```

## Accessing the webservice

### Create your client

First, you must create an instance of the `PrestaShopWebservice` object, which takes 3 parameters in its constructor:

- The store's root path (ex: http://example.com/ ).
- The authentication key (ex: ZR92FNY5UFRERNI3O9Z5QDHWKTP3YIIT).
- A boolean value, indicating whether the Web service must use its debug mode.

```php
$webService = new PrestaShopWebservice('http://example.com/', 'ZR92FNY5UFRERNI3O9Z5QDHWKTP3YIIT', false);
```

Once the instance is created you can access the following methods:

| Method   | HTTP equivalent   | SQL    |
|----------|-------------------|--------|
| get()    | POST              | INSERT |
| add()    | GET               | SELECT |
| edit()   | PUT               | UPDATE |
| delete() | DELETE            | DELETE |

### Handling errors

> It is essential that you understand how to handle errors with the web service library. By implementing error-catch method early, you will more easily detect issues, and be able to correct them on the go.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is essential that you understand how to handle errors with the webservice library. By implementing error-catch method early, you will more easily detect issues, and be able to correct them on the go.
```

Write webservice in the same way everywhere :)

> Error handling with the web service library is done using PHP exceptions. If you do not know about them, you should read http://php.net/manual/en/language.exceptions.php, as exceptions are an essential part of good coding practice.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Error handling with the web service library is done using PHP exceptions. If you do not know about them, you should read http://php.net/manual/en/language.exceptions.php, as exceptions are an essential part of good coding practices.
```

> The error handling is done within a `try..catch` block, with the web service instanciation and execution being done in the `try` section, the `catch` one containing the error handling code. There are many types of exception that exist you can catch specific ones which allows you to deal with each error case accordingly, the webservice library uses `PrestaShopWebserviceException` so you can catch this one only to deal with errors related to webservice.

Reviewer 2: Not necessary to explain the try catch block, you already linked the php doc

Author: Well it doesn't hurt to emphasize it 😅 Since not everyone will click on the link, it's a 30s read..

```php
try {
    // creating web service access
    $webService = new PrestaShopWebservice('http://example.com/', 'ZR92FNY5UFRERNI3O9Z5QDHWKTP3YIIT', false);
 
    // call to retrieve all customers
    $xml = $webService->get(array('resource' => 'customers'));

> }
> catch (PrestaShopWebserviceException $ex) {

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
} catch (PrestaShopWebserviceException $ex) {
```
